feat(vitest): add `hooksBeforeTestCases` rule (#3125)
flint-fyi/flint: packages/site/src/content/docs/rules/vitest/hooksBeforeTestCases.mdx

---

> description: "Reports hooks before any test case."

Reviewer: I think this is worded opposite of what it does.  Should be "Reports hooks that are not before all test cases within the same scope."  or "Enforces that hooks are before all test cases within the same scope."

> description: "Reports hooks after the first test case."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Enforces that all lifecycle hooks should come before all test cases."
```

title: "hooksBeforeTestCases"
topic: "rules"
---

import { TabItem, Tabs } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

import { RuleEquivalents } from "~/components/RuleEquivalents";
import RuleSummary from "~/components/RuleSummary.astro";

<RuleSummary plugin="vitest" rule="hooksBeforeTestCases" />

Vitest runs setup and teardown hooks for every test case in their scope, regardless of where they are declared.

> Some repositories prefer to declare hooks before any test cases so the setup a test relies on is visible above it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some repositories prefer to declare hooks before all test cases, so the setup/teardown that tests rely on is visible above them.
```

This rule reports on any hook declared after a test case in the same scope.

## Examples

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="❌ Incorrect">

```ts
describe("math", () => {
	it("adds values", () => {});

	beforeEach(() => {
		// ...
	});
});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="✅ Correct">

```ts
describe("math", () => {
	beforeEach(() => {
		// ...
	});

	it("adds values", () => {});
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Options

This rule is not configurable.

> ## When Not To Use It

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When Not to Use It
```
